Who has a friend that brings out the best in you? Or makes you feel heard and supported? When you are with them, a certain characteristic of yours crawls out from the depths like a sea urchin and is ready to go in the best way! My best friend Joanna and I have what we call our party goblins, and when we’re around each other we act a FOOL and we’re constantly laughing because our inner party goblins are out. By being with her, the best of me comes out. Her presence influences me for the better.

I want to invite you all to think about the power of being in someone’s presence. How do you know someone’s presence brings out the best in you? How do you know a relationship with them has made a difference in your life? To answer these questions, I want to offer that being in someone’s presence changes the way you take in life. You may take in life joyfully or take in life with a sense of calm because of someone’s presence. Who you choose to be around affects you, and you affect them.

Tonight I want to talk about the presence of God and how being in His presence can change you. We hear a lot about “being still” and “the peace of God,” but what does that really mean for you in high school? How can you possibly be still with what’s going on in the world now and what you face at home and the things that worry you throughout the day? How can we get peace in the midst of the crazy?

God’s presence is a powerful thing that we all have access to. You don’t need to say a fancy thought out prayer or be in a church to be in his presence. In fact, all you need to do is stop. God can only speak to you when you stop running. This means stop striving to be liked, stop seeking validation in relationships, and stop numbing out, and so on. Stop running. There is a verse from Psalm 46 that says this: “Be still and know that I am God.” In the original language that Psalm 46 was written in, “be still” essentially means “bro chill out, knock it off.” It’s a war time command more than a soothing suggestion. When you stop running, you give yourself an opportunity to truly be in God’s presence. What do you need to stop doing so that God can hear you, heal you, and provide for you? Being in His presence gives these things and more.

There’s a story from Mark 4 that illustrates this concept perfectly. To give you the gist, Jesus and his disciple homies get into a boat, probably called the SS Noah’s Ark 2, and set sail. Jesus was fully human as he was God, so like every decent human he needed to nap. Well, as he was catching his Z’s, a storm quickly brewed up and his homies started to tweak out because their boat wasn’t big enough to save them. They ran to the sleeping Jesus and asked him, “um yo JC, are you even going to do something about this or go on with that fat nap?” Here’s what happened next: 
<i>[Jesus] got up, rebuked the wind and said to the waves, “Quiet! Be still!” Then the wind died down and it was completely calm.
 He said to his disciples, “Why are you so afraid? Do you still have no faith?” They were terrified and asked each other, “Who is this? Even the wind and the waves obey him!”</i>

Talk about a mic drop.

Two things to notice here: first, Jesus is in charge of calming any and all storms. He does not panic and quickly solve problems and He certainly doesn’t ask you to either. He uses the war command of “Peace! Be still! Now!” He doesn’t say, “hey storm, could you like, maybe not?” If he is in charge of physical storms, he is in charge of figurative storms too. Your life and this world are not sending God into a panic spiral right now. He knows your life and mine, and he’s showing up in ways we cannot imagine or see. If God isn’t panicking, you have no need to either.
Second, the command “be still” has power. It demands us to stop and surrender control so that God can do his job. When you know that God is in control, your attitude changes. That’s you stopping. That’s what it means to be still. And when you are still, God can bring you into His presence because you aren’t frantic. Peace, be still.

So what would it look like for you to stop running and be in God’s presence? What area of your life do you need His peace in? What are you worrying about now that you need His surpassing peace? I want to close by reminding you that His presence is powerful and the only source of perfect peace. I’ll say that again: His presence is powerful and the only source of perfect peace. We cannot manufacture perfect peace, only God can do that. A mark of someone who has been in the presence of God is indescribable peace. God’s peace isn’t a feeling you get, it’s a state of being between you and God, knowing that whatever happens that He is and will be in control. It doesn’t make sense to the world, but I can first handedly tell you that it works. During a time where things in your life may be uncertain, I sincerely encourage you to get out a journal and a Bible, turn to the end of Mark chapter 4 and read this passage. Bring everything you got that hurts and whatever you treasure, and ask God to bring you into His presence. Get the only peace you need. His presence will change you.
